Update performance methodology pages to cross-reference new repo (#53907)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/performance-measure.adoc

* how we measure memory usage
* how we measure startup time
* how we measure throughput
* which additional flags will Quarkus apply to native-image by default
* Coordinated omission Problem in Tools

All of our tests are run on the same hardware for a given batch.
It goes without saying, but it's better when you say it.

> NOTE: The https://github.com/quarkusio/spring-quarkus-perf-comparison[spring-quarkus-perf-comparison] repository contains the runnable scripts used for our official benchmarks. The sections below describe the methodology; the repository has the exact, up-to-date commands.

Reviewer: "official benchmarks" sounds very _official_, with a full seal of endorsement as being the only one the team cares about - and unconditionally endorsed :)
It might be best to soften this and also suggest we use also a number of other benchmarks? Perhaps just clarify it's the reference benchmark used to produce the fitures on the homepage?

Author: I agree. I didn't love 'official' but couldn't think of a better word.

=== Platform Specific Memory Reporting

> In order to not incur the performance overhead of running with NMT enabled, we measure the total RSS of a JVM application using tools specific to each platform.

Reviewer 2: Funny enough the world has changed (thanks to us, too): https://bugs.openjdk.org/browse/JDK-8318636 allow using jcmd to obtain this info (and more). I have asked our OpenJDK to implement it while working on https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/issues/36204 - so in theory now we have some "portable" way to do it...
That said, it requires issuing a jcmd, which means is less invasive what we do

== How do we measure startup time

Some frameworks use aggressive lazy initialization techniques.

> It is important to measure the startup time to first request (TTFR) to most accurately reflect how long a framework needs to start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to measure the time to first request (TTFR) to most accurately reflect how long a framework needs to start.
```

I know it's pre-existing, but TTFR just doesn't start with S :)

Otherwise, you will miss the time the framework _actually_ takes to initialize.

Here is how we measure startup time in our tests.

=== Approach

> We record a nanosecond timestamp immediately before launching the application, then poll the application's HTTP endpoint until it returns a 200 response. The difference is the Time to First Request (TTFR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We record a timestamp immediately before launching the application, then poll the application's HTTP endpoint until it returns a 200 response. The difference is the Time to First Request (TTFR).
```

> The https://github.com/quarkusio/spring-quarkus-perf-comparison/blob/main/scripts/perf-lab/scripts/time-to-1st-request.sh[`time-to-1st-request.sh`] script in the benchmark repository implements this precisely. It records the start time using nanosecond precision:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The https://github.com/quarkusio/spring-quarkus-perf-comparison/blob/main/scripts/perf-lab/scripts/time-to-1st-request.sh[`time-to-1st-request.sh`] script in the benchmark repository implements this precisely. It records the start time using nanosecond granularity:
```

There's no nanoseconds precision with such tools ...

> The https://github.com/quarkusio/spring-quarkus-perf-comparison/blob/main/scripts/perf-lab/scripts/time-to-1st-request.sh[`time-to-1st-request.sh`] script in the benchmark repository implements this precisely. It records the start time using nanosecond precision:

Reviewer 2: It was changed and improved by @zakkak - and we noticed a very big difference while measuring with the nee method compared to the older one; we now poll the socket before launching the server

[source,shell]
----
$ date +%s%N
----

NOTE: On macOS, the built-in `date` does not support `%N`. Install GNU coreutils and use `gdate +%s%N` instead.

A background polling loop attempts TCP connections and sends HTTP GET requests until a 200 response is received:

[source,shell]
----
while true; do
  if exec 3<>/dev/tcp/"$HOST"/"$PORT"; then
    echo -e "GET $URL_PATH HTTP/1.0\r\nHost: $HOST\r\nConnection: close\r\n\r\n" >&3
    read -r _ status_code _ <&3
    exec 3>&-
    if [[ "$status_code" == "200" ]]; then
      break
    fi
  fi
done
----

The TTFR is then computed as the difference between the response timestamp and the start timestamp, in nanoseconds.

=== Why not just use the framework's reported startup time?

A framework-reported startup time (e.g. "started in 0.002s") only measures internal initialization.

> It may not include time spent loading shared libraries, JVM bootstrap, or the time until the application can actually serve a request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will not include time spent loading bootstrap libraries, JVM bootstrap, or the time until the application can actually take a timestamp.
```

Author: Not sure about `the time until the application can actually take a timestamp`, but will fix the others. Oh, I see!

Our comments are about different ends of the timing-window. I've mixed pre- ("I haven't started measuring because JVM init") and post- ("I claim to be ready, but good luck getting an answer from me for another 2s")

But I think I like mine better. :) Will try and clarify.
